tags: Array, BinarySearch

#[LeetCode 26] Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array

>Given a sorted array, remove the duplicates in place such that each element appear only once and return the new length.
Do not allocate extra space for another array, you must do this in place with constant memory.

    For example,
    Given input array nums = [1,1,2],

Your function should return length = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 1 and 2 respectively. 
It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the new length.

**Diffculti**  
`Easy`

####Analysis

**1. Sorted array**

For sorted array, duplicates are in contiguous position.
Since it is not allowed to allcoation new space, operations must be in place, we need to a indexer to point to the i + 1 index of 
visited element. Use another indexer j to iterate over the array.

if A[i+1] is duplicate with A[i], which means A[i+1] == A[i]. We keep moving j, until encouter an element not duplicate with A[i+1], 
replace A[i+1] with it, i++.

At the end, index i points to the end of the new array, return it.

**2. Non-sorted array**

Use set or map to save unique values, since this need to use extra space, this can't be done in place.

// 1. Cpp solution

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int removeDuplicates(vector<int> &A) {
        const int n = A.size();
        if(n < 2) return n;
        
        int end = 1;

        // end denotes the end of the new array, 
        // it is the slot that next non-duplicate number will be put in
        // end denotes  the end of the duplicates
        // for example: A{1, 1, 2, 2, 3}
        // end = 1, 3
        for(int i = 1; i < n; ++i){
            if(A[end - 1] != A[i]){
                A[end++] = A[i];
            }
        }
        return end;
    }
};
```

// 2. For unsorted array, some cpp solutions.

 * **vector, sort + unique**

    sort(vec.begin(), vec.end());
    iter = unique(vec.begin(), vec.end());
    vec.erase(iter, vec.end());
    len = distance(vec.begin(), iter);

 * **set**

    set<int> s(vec.begin(), vec.end());
    vec.assign(s.begin(), s.end());

 * **unordered_set**
    unordered_set<int> s(vec.begin(), vec.end());
    vec.assign(s.begin(), s.end());
    sort(vec.begin(), vec.end());


**Summary:** unordered_set has best time complexity in the above 3 solutions!

 * **std::unique()**  Remove consecutive duplicates in range

    std::vector<int> myvector {10, 20, 20, 20, 30, 30, 20, 20, 10};
    std::vector<int>::iterator it;
    it = std::unique (myvector.begin(), myvector.end());   // 10 20 30 20 10 -  -  -  -
    myvector.resize( std::distance(myvector.begin(),it) ); // 10 20 30 20 10


// 3. Go solution
```go
func removeDuplicates(nums []int) int {
    if len(nums) < 2 {
        return len(nums)
    }
    i := 1
    for j := 1; j < len(nums); j++ {
        if nums[i-1] != nums[j] {
            nums[i] = nums[j]
            i++
        }
    }
    return i
}
```