tags: Array

#[LeetCode 57] Insert Interval

Given a set of non-overlapping intervals, insert a new interval into the intervals (merge if necessary).
You may assume that the intervals were initially sorted according to their start times.

**Example 1:**

Given intervals [1, 3], [6, 9], insert and merge [2, 5] in as [1, 5], [6, 9].

**Example 2:**

Given [1, 2], [3, 5], [6, 7], [8, 10], [12, 16], insert and merge [4, 9] in as [1, 2], [3, 10], [12, 16].
This is because the new interval [4, 9] overlaps with [3, 5], [6, 7], [8, 10].

**Difficulty**  
`Hard`

**Related Problems**  
[[LeetCode 56] Merge Intervals]()

#### Analysis
This is similar to the problem `Merge Intervals` except that the intervals are sorted already.  
We just need to find the index that we will insert the interval into, or merge it if over-lapped.

The index we insert the interval into will have two cases:

 * 1. The interval to insert is not overlapped with the existing intervals. this is easy, we just insert it.
 * 2. The interval to insert is overlapped with the existing intervals, it may even be overlapped with multiple intervals.
      In this case, we need to update the new interval.

**Demo**

Iterate over the given intervals, if `interval[i].end < newInterval.start`, put it into a container, else, merge interval[i] with
newInterval to get a **newInterval**, before we push it into the container, continue iterating the remaining intervals, and repeat 
the previous process.

**1. Cpp solution**

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    vector<Interval> insert(vector<Interval>& intervals, Interval newInterval) {
        vector<Interval> result;
        int n = intervals.size();
        int i = 0;
        for(; i < n && intervals[i].end < newInterval.start; ++i){
            result.push_back(intervals[i]);
        }
        if(i == n){
            result.push_back(newInterval);
            return result;
        }
        
        newInterval.start = min(intervals[i].start, newInterval.start);
        for(; i < n && intervals[i].start <= newInterval.end; ++i){
            newInterval.end = max(intervals[i].end, newInterval.end);
        }
        result.push_back(newInterval);
        for(; i < n; ++i){
            result.push_back(intervals[i]);
        }
        return result;
    }
};
```

**2. Go solution**

```go
func insert(intervals []Interval, newInterval Interval) []Interval {
    res := []Interval{}
    n := len(intervals)
    if n == 0 {
        res = append(res, newInterval)
        return res
    }

    i := 0
    for ; i < n && intervals[i].End < newInterval.Start; i++ {
        res = append(res, intervals[i])
    }

    if i == n {
        res = append(res, newInterval)
        return res
    }

    newInterval.Start = min(newInterval.Start, intervals[i].Start)
    // update newInterval's End
    for ; i < n && intervals[i].Start <= newInterval.End; i++ {
        newInterval.End = max(newInterval.End, intervals[i].End)
    }

    res = append(res, newInterval)
    for ; i < n; i++ {
        res = append(res, intervals[i])
    }

    return res
}

func max(a, b int) int {
    return int(math.Max(float64(a), float64(b)))
}

func min(a, b int) int {
    return int(math.Min(float64(a), float64(b)))
}
```

#### Reference

[LeetCode 57]:https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-interval